While we're still on the subject of border radius and border margin padding and everything that has
to do with a CSX box model why don't we take a look at some very very nifty property called outline
and you know what orders are going to we're going to use some visual aid.
So again we're going to ride over here CSX out line property something like this and then we're going
to be looking for damages.
Now with the damages we're just going to show you again there's plenty of them you can choose whatever
you'd like but what's happening is that we have the content.
So we already have it where we have the padding.
Then we have the border and then past the border we in fact have the outline and then we're dealing
with the margin.
Now let me see maybe there is a better or a little bit actual image with me checking in for the images.
And let me scroll here is the border content.
Let me see where there is one with a margin maybe.
Yeah I don't think this is gonna be here.
But anyway I just understand that there's still going to be margin right here because remember margin
was kind of behind the border.
So what in fact we're having here is the content.
Then we have the border then we have the outline and eventually we'll have obviously our margin.
Your question probably would be why why does it make sense.
So we are having right now the border and why we care about so much about the outline.
Well we don't carry it like excessively but we can do some pretty nifty things with an outline that
we cannot deal with the border.
And as always you guessed it in order to show you that we're gonna head over back to indexation amount
and here we're gonna say something like along the lines like this there is gonna be a Dave.
Dave is gonna have class.
So the class is gonna be buttons let's say.
And you know what.
Let me spell it correctly as well as within this Dave.
We're gonna have two links now each of the links is gonna have a hashtag so the link is not gonna go
anywhere.
However the first one is gonna have the class of let's say one or you know just to switch it around
let's use the Dave and say this is gonna be Dave I'm sorry what Dave I.D..
Let's use the idea.
And I don't know why I'm using the hashtag because this is something I'm going to have to use in a CSI.
So I'm sorry.
I guess that's what happens if I'm using classes 20 times.
Anyway I want I.D. Now the first one an idea is gonna be one and I'm gonna say is no outline that will
be written in the link and I'm going to copy and paste.
Now for the second one I'm gonna say that this buddy is gonna be number two.
And here this guy is gonna have the outline.
Awesome.
We have everything set up in the limo.
Now what's next.
Well let's start in the buttons in the seats us and let's say for the buttons first of all I would want
some margin and margins is gonna be three are yams or not okay.
It's a very very nice start and then I would like to select both the length and we're gonna add a bunch
of styles just or both of the length and then we specifically work with one of them with the border
and then the other one you guessed it.
Than you use the outline so we're gonna say something like this will you say first of all background
is gonna be some x value.
Six eight nine.
Let's say again hashtag six eight nine.
And then I'm looking for F 3.
Oh gonna be a green color as well as we're gonna be looking for some tax decoration I'm gonna say tax
decoration is gonna be none are patting.
Let's add some padding a little bit let's say one point two resumes and one point five arms as well.
So this is gonna be my panic house up and then we're having the color and the color.
We can do.
I not gonna hex value to do it you know blackish color and you know what we can also do text transform
uppercase XT transform uppercase.
This is gonna be transform navigates and you know what we haven't covered yet.
Display properties.
So let me make this smaller later on we're going to see why this is happening.
But don't worry about it too much right now what we're looking for is the outline properly what else
is happening.
Well now we would want.
I don't know a cursor pointer.
No this is gonna make sure that as we hovering that there's gonna be a little pointer.
Now once we say it check it out what happens as I'm hovering over the links that I'm gonna having this
cursor point mouse.
OK what else.
Now this is the time we're all gonna meet the border again.
Mark we have already met the border.
But I guess we're going to get to know more one more time.
What are we going to write the shortcut and organize a border and for the border at an all zero point
to our aims.
That would be the actual width of the border.
And we're looking for solid and until 2.
OK.
Finally we can start working on our outline an outline is gonna have to be a lot similar the way the
border is.
Meaning if I'm gonna go to the second one I can write like this.
You can say no to here is gonna first and I have some kind of outline with what to do.
Again the same thing zero point two yams.
Then we're gonna have the outline and we're gonna be looking for style.
So in this case again we're going to go on solid just because we want to match exactly the same like
we had here just so you can see that there's a lot of similarities.
And last but not least we're gonna have outline color.
Now once we have these three things and stack two two two you'll see that everything looks exactly the
same.
Now your question probably would be well what is the difference then why you're showing this.
Well what's nifty about the outline is the fact that you know what.
Before we do that and quickly adds a margin.
So margin is going to be for both lengths zero to bottom and then we're going to be looking for like
20 pixels something like this just because they're not actually sitting side by side.
And again I'm struggling because we haven't covered display properties yet.
But the moment we add the outline you might be tempted.
Taking longer.
So that looks exactly the same y y you're going over this while you're covering the outline.
Well first of all I would like to tell yes there's gonna be a lot of similarities because I can do the
shortcut remember how we have the porous border.
So here I can write the same thing I can say outline then whatever styles I had zero point two or three
M's solid yams solid and then I have hashtag to do what's really really nifty though about this property
is the fact that we can use the property of offset how is that going to work.
Well let's see.
So if I'm gonna write here outline offset I'm gonna be able to move this outline whether more out from
the actual button in our case or we can more with more.
So let's say if I'm gonna say that the outline is gonna be 10 pixels notice what's gonna happen.
So now we have nice effect where our border has been actually moved away from currently the elemental
working.
And what's also really cool we can move in the opposite direction.
So if I'm got a company posted an hour slate right now because of the order I'm gonna override this.
And if I'm gonna say negative 10 pixels what happens is right now my outline is gonna be within the
element.
So those are the cool things that we can do without line.
And that is the reason why we would want to know about the border as well as about the outline.